With this application we hope to extract data on the 2013 flooding of the Yamuna River and the damage it did to buildings and other shelters in the area.

We want to answer questions like:

1. In which area have buildings and shelters been most damaged?
2. What types of buildings have been damaged?
3. Are they temporary or permanent structures?
4. What materials are they made of?

Photos of buildings that are not affected by the floods are just as useful as photos of those that were so don't worry if some photos don't seem to show anything: **no data is often also very useful information**.

### How does it work?
You will be presented with a photo taken during the monsoon flooding of 2013 and asked a series of questions about what you can see in the photo.

Answer the questions as best you can, and we highly recommend taking the tutorial before starting so you know what to look for.

**Don't worry if you are not sure about your answer**, each photo is presented to at least 30 people and the final answers are taken from the majority response, so there is no problem if you get a couple wrong.

**Sometimes it will be difficult to see what is in the photo** - if you are not sure, don't be afraid to select "I DON'T KNOW", this is also an answer!

**Don't worry either if you find you have a lot of photos that are not relevant**, sometimes you might go through several photos in a row that have no water before finding one you can analyse. Photos have been collected for not only this application but also others covering topics like agriculture, shelter, accessibility etc. While a photo may not be relevant for this application it will probably be relevant for another one. It is also still useful to know where there was not water, or where people are not affected by the flooding.

If you want more information on some of the problems faced by communities living along the banks of the Yamuna see [Yamuna's Daughters: Women for Sustainable Cities](http://yamuna.womenforsustainablecities.org).


### What are we doing with the results?
The applications of the Yamuna 2013 Monsoon Flooding are the first pilot project of GeoTag-X.

Results generated by your contributions to this application will help us improve the Yamuna applications for deployment during future monsoon seasons. More generally we will also use these results to determine how these types of applications could be best used in a disaster situation. Ideally the results from these applications would be used to complement other sources of data informing the response and recovery effort such as satellite imagery analysis and field assessments.

Application co-developed with Sylvia Nagl, Keren Limor-Waisberg, PhD; and [Rosita Haddad-Zubel](http://tecfa.unige.ch/perso/rosita/-/Home.html).

Application icon courtesy of [Manju Jagvati Kinno, Sahina Mohamad, Farhana Tashkin Irsad Mohamad, Aashiya Nashima Shakeel, Roobi Semun Lal Mohamad, Gulshan Mamina Khtoon Sansuddin, Jainendra Kumar](http://yamuna.womenforsustainablecities.org/).
